mind your decisions I'm presto Walker a
ladder and a cube are in a room place
the cube along the wall and then rest
the ladder along the wall so that is
just touching the side of the cube for
precision think about the ladder as a
line segment if the ladder has a length
equal to 4 and the cube has a side
length equal to 1 what is the distance
between the top of the cube and the top
of the ladder denoted by the variable Y
in the following diagram
I think Nathaniel M mark L and / T for
the suggestion for a challenge find an
exact answer for the general case where
the ladder has a length L and the cube
has a side length C pause the video if
you'd like to give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
so how can we solve this problem we have
a ladder with a length of 4 a-cube with
a side length equal to 1 and we want to
solve for the distance Y it seems simple
but it's quite complicated the solution
I'm going to present is from the user
blue on mat stack exchange I thought it
was a very elegant solution we'll get
started with the general case suppose
the ladder has a length of L and the
cube has a side length C we want to
solve for y in terms of L and C to do
that let's label some more parts of this
diagram the other side of the cube will
also have a length of C and we'll label
the horizontal distance between the
ladder and the cube as X now we're going
to do a neat little trick we're going to
copy this diagram three different times
and construct a square this is going to
create a clever geometric solution we're
now going to put this diagram to the
side let's connect the four corners of
these internal squares creating another
Square suppose this Square has a side
length equal to W now let's label the
area of this triangle where one side
length is equal to X as capital X we'll
label the other triangle with a side
length Y as capital y we'll label these
parts in other parts of the sigh gram
now suppose this triangle has an area
equal to Z by symmetry these will also
have areas equal to Z and just so we
don't get lost the square that consists
of the four ladders
we'll put in blue now let's calculate
the area of this green square well one
way to calculate its area is that its
side length is equal to W plus C so it's
area will be the quantity W plus C
squared another way as we'll sum up the
areas of the rectangles inside of this
square here we have a square with an
area that's equal to C squared we then
have two rectangles as follows this is
one rectangle and this is another
rectangle we have two X terms and two Y
terms so we have 2 times the quantity X
plus y and we have 2 Z 2
so we get plus 2z we also have this
square which has a side length equal to
W so its area will be W squared we can
simplify this formula a little bit
consider this rectangle one half of its
area will be equal to Z and one half of
its area will also be equal to X plus y
therefore X plus y is equal to Z we
substitute that in into this term X plus
y and it will become 2 times Z we then
group the Z terms so we have 4 times Z
we now simplify this formula one more
time we have 4 Z plus del B squared
what's that equal to it will exactly be
equal to the area of this square which
has a side length equal to L therefore
for Z plus W squared is equal to L
squared and we substitute that in we now
have a very simple formula we take the
square root of both sides and we'll take
only the positive square root because
we're considering positive lengths we
then subtract C from both sides and we
get an equation for W in terms of the
known values of C and L we now make one
observation about W W is exactly equal
to the side length of this square which
is equal to the quantity X plus y so if
W is equal to X plus y and we want to
solve for y to do that we'll consider
these triangles because the ladder has a
constant slope these two right triangles
will be similar therefore the ratio
between the horizontal leg and the
vertical leg will be equal in both
triangles so we have x over C is equal
to C over Y which means X is equal to C
squared over Y we substitute that into
the equation where W is equal to X plus
y we now multiply both sides of this
equation by Y and then simplify this we
now have a quadratic equation in Y we
can use broma group this quadratic
formula to get the following two
possible values now we have a plus and a
minus
notice the plus will be a larger term
and this will correspond to Y which is
the vertical longer distance the
negative term will actually correspond
to X
which is a horizontal distance so we'll
separate these two terms we've thus
figured out a general formula for why
how does this work
in our original problem C was equal to
one and L was equal to four so we
substitute that into the formula for W
and we get that W is equal to negative
one plus the square root of 17 we then
substitute that into our formula for y
and we get the following equation we
simplify this equation a little bit and
we get the exact answer for y this is
approximately equal to two point seven
six and that's the answer to this
problem
thanks for making mind your decisions
one of the best channels on YouTube as
always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]